Now let's select the candidate.
Okay,
we want to first review our requirements and make sure we fully understand
our requirements as we listed them earlier in the process.
We want to double check to make sure all the
questions that were asked are scored.
They either got it right or wrong or maybe even a partial score is fine as well.
Then we want to calculate their complete scores based on the weights.
Remember we weighted things.
Maybe some things were worth 15% or 20% or 5%, things like that.
So we want to apply the weightings and then we want to rank the candidates.
Those with the highest scores are on top and those with
the lower scores are on the bottom.
Now we basically want to select the top person who scored the most.
That's the likely candidate we're going to pick.
This way it's a little more objective, but before we do,
we certainly want to get the team together.
We want to discuss, come to an agreement, and then select.
Maybe there is some odd reason why the person ranked
the highest isn't the best candidate.
I suppose that's possible, maybe based on timing.
Maybe that person can't start for another two months or something like that.
Discuss, agree, and then select.
And what I'd also like you to do is document the reason
why you selected the particular candidate or why you did
not select certain candidates.
This can be very important.
In large corporations with HR organizations,
occasionally there are complaints or lawsuits filed.
You want to have all your paperwork in place.
You want to have all your scores and weightings in place so you can
show objectively that you treated everyone equally,
as you should.
Okay,
now that you have someone selected and you've discussed and
agreed who the best candidate would be,
you want to complete whatever HR or company paperwork is required to move
the processing forward for the particular new hire.
Okay, now let's move on to the remaining paperwork.
Okay, now on to the final paperwork.
Of course, you always want to follow any company process,
especially HR processes.
Make sure you understand those and follow those,
but typically what will happen next is an offer letter will go out.
The person will receive that, read that,
maybe there are even a couple questions you can chat about.
Next is the acceptance, or possibly the rejection, okay?
So if they accept, great, you can move on.
If they reject, you'll want to know, who is on deck?
You want to assemble the team again,
look at who the second person was that was ranked,
discuss that person,
and start the process over in terms of another offer letter for that person.
And then lastly, of course, is final acceptance.
Once that person has actually accepted and typically there is
usually the signing of an acceptance letter,
then you can inform the other candidates they were not
accepted and you're going to keep them on file.
Okay, now let's move on with a great closing quote.
"I am convinced that nothing we do is more important
than hiring and developing people.
At the end of the day you bet on people, not on strategies.
" And I believe that, too, wholeheartedly.
Good luck in your search for the best and the brightest. Now let's summarize this module.